Group meetings
================
Gustav Delius

## 9 October

Our first meeting by zoom. Everyone was present and everyone briefly
introduced themselves.

We agreed that for the rest of the autumn term we will meet weekly at
2pm on Thurssdays via zoom at <https://york-ac-uk.zoom.us/j/5277386983>.

During the first week everyone will concentrate on getting comfortable
with R, RStudio, R Markdown, Git and GitHub. For this purpose I
recommend to follow the lectures in the MOOC “[The Data Scientist’s
Toolbox](https://www.coursera.org/learn/data-scientists-tools)”. From
this we only need weeks 2 and 3 and the first section of week 4.

Before next meeting I would like everyone to create a repository for
their final-year project on GitHub.

As a GitHub challenge: try to edit this file to link your name below to
your GitHub repository and then make a pull request. (You will have to
figure out what that even means.)

  - [Gustav
    Delius](https://github.com/gustavdelius/fisheries-data-analysis)
  - [Chloe Hodson](https://github.com/ChloeH276/Third-Year-Project)
  - [Jacob
    Passfield](https://github.com/jacobpassfield/third-year-project)
  - [Maisie Beckett](https://github.com/maisiebeckett/3rd-year-project)
  - [Scott Connors](https://github.com/Scott-Connors/3rd-Year-Project)
  - [Tallulah Coyte](https://github.com/tallulahcoyte/3rd-Year-Project)
  - [Felix Carter](https://github.com/Felix-C577/Third-Year-Project)

## 15 October

Short meeting with everyone present. No one reports any difficulties
with Git and GitHub.

For next week I propose that everyone work through [“An introduction to
basic fisheries analysis with
R”](https://sfg-ucsb.github.io/fishery-manageR/). There you will learn
a lot of skills necessary for taking a first look at data. Please try to
not only reproduce the analysis in that document, but play around a bit,
for example changing the way the data is plotted. This will prepare you
for when you get your own data set to visualise.

## 22 October

Our third meeting was hampered a bit by Gustav’s unstable internet
connection today. Some of the communication was therefore done by email.

I recommended that you use zotero (zotero.org) to keep track of all the
literature you find that is useful for or related to your project.
Whenever you find anything of interest, you can quickly add it using the
zotero browser plugin. Then when you read the paper or blog or whatever
it is, add some notes on zotero so that later, when the time comes to
write the project report, you can easily remember and compile a good
bibliography.

Once you have created an account on zotero.org, please let me know your
username and I will add you to a group library where I have put the
links to the data sets and papers that I want you to engage with this
week.

I would like you all to use the skills that you developed in the
previous week on a completely different data set. I have put the links
and papers that I want you to work with this week into a zotero group
library at
<https://www.zotero.org/groups/2582526/data_analysis_in_fisheries_science/>

There is a paper by Scharf et.al.
(<http://people.uncw.edu/scharff/publications/MEPS%202000.pdf>) and I
think you find the corresponding data at
<http://www.fishecology.org/diets/diets.htm>.

Then there is a paper by Barnes et.al. You can get access to the paper
via the University. The corresponding data set is at
<https://figshare.com/articles/dataset/Full_Archive/3529112>.

Finally there is a paper by people at CEFAS, using the DAPSTOM database
at <https://www.cefas.co.uk/data-and-publications/fish-stomach-records/>

What I want you to do is download at least one of these data sets, try
to understand what it contains, and make some graph based on it. Note
that I do not expect you to go into any detail. I only expect you to do
something simple with the data, like some scatterplot of two variables,
or whatever you like. But if you do want to do something more fancy, the
papers should give you lots of ideas. You should keep your code in an
Rmarkdown document that you should commit to your repository and push to
GitHub. Remember to commit early and often to get the full benefit of
version control. Do add lots of text to your Rmarkdown document
explaining what you are doing and what you are observing.

At our meeting next week, if my internet connection is up to it, I
intend for us to take a look at the Rmarkdown documents that people have
prepared. We want to learn skills from each other.

## 29 October

Short meeting at which we discuss some GitHub issues. We take a brief
look at the Rmd document that Felix has produced, analysing the Barnes
data set. I recommend this to everyone as a source of inspiration. Not
everyone’s Rmd file knits properly when I check it out on my computer,
often because they work with files only available on the student’s
computer.

I mention that I have added another data file and paper to the Zotero
group library with observations of fish sizes around Australia.

I ask people to email me when they have something for me to look at.

## 5 November

We look at some Rmarkdown documents together which knit flawlessly.
These demonstrate a lot of skills already.

I troubleshoot some individual technical problems in private meetings
after the group meetings. I also begin private meetings with students to
discuss individual student’s focus for their project:

  - I agree with Maisie that she will look into the literature that uses
    the Barnes data set and report back to me with her findings.
  - I ask Scott to read the 1973 paper by Ursin with a view towards him
    applying similar methods to the Barnes data set.

## 12 November

Short meeting that we use to agree individual meeting slots for Friday.
will create summaries of individual meetings in the respective student’s
GitHub repository.

We discuss the upcoming assignment 3 that asks students to write a 4
page report. I recommend that students do two things in their report:

  - Describe the literature on a topic that we will agree in our
    individual meetings.
  - Explain some maths used in one of the papers.

That way I will be able to give feedback on two very different kinds of
writing skills. I see the main purpose of assignment 3 to give me a
chance to give feedback that will be useful in writing the final project
report.
